Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Through data Structure we can collect and organize data in best way as well as perform operation
on that in most  effective way.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Traversing, Searching, Inserting, Deleting, Sorting, Merging

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design, Operating System,Database Management System,Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence

what is an Array?
An array is a collection of variables of the same type.Each object in an array is called an array element.
We can have an array of integers or an array of characters or an array.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.We can not
store primitives in ArrayList, it can only contain Objects while Array can contain both
primitives and Objects in Java.

what is LinkedList?
A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object. Each element (node) of a list is comprising of two
items - the   data and a reference to the next node. The last node has a reference to null.
The entry point into a linked list is called the head of the list.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Basically, an array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential memory locations under
a common heading or a variable name. While a linked list is a data structure which contains a
sequence of the elements where each element is linked to its next element. There are two fields
in an element of linked list ie  1. Single Link List and 2.  Double Link List.

what is queue?
A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue,
and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.A queue is sometimes referred to as a First-In-First-Out (FIFO) or Last-In-Last-Out (LILO) structure.

what is stack?
A stack is a data structure that allows data to be inserted (push),and removed (pop). A stack is a LIFO-queue, meaning that
the last data to be inserted will be the first data to be removed.STACK is a LIFO (last in, first out) list.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO is an acronym for first in, first out, a method for organizing and manipulating a
data buffer, where the oldest (first) entry, or 'head' of the queue, is processed first.
FIFO's opposite is LIFO, last-in-first-out, where the youngest entry or 'top of the stack'
is processed first.  The order in which elements come off a stack gives rise to its
alternative name, LIFO (last in, first out).

what is the order of complexity?
This means that it is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input, and the
algorithm finishes between two factors of it. Generally, the smaller the order of complexity
of the program's underlying algorithm, the faster it will run and the better it will scale as the input gets larger.


what is the best case to search an element from an array?

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?


what is tree in data structure?
Tree data structure is useful on occasions where linear representation of data do not suffice,
such as creating a family tree. Java provides two in-built classes, TreeSet and TreeMap,
in Java Collection Framework.


what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a set of vertices and a binary relation between vertices.There are many   different types of graphs, such as connected and disconnected graphs, bipartite graphs,
weighted graphs, directed and undirected graphs, and simple graphs.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashmap is not-thread safe and can't be shared between many threads without proper synchronization
code whereas Hashtable is synchronized. It is thread-safe and can be shared with many threads.
HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value.


What are the major data structures used in the following areas :
RDBMS,
Network data model and
Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java?
HashMap in Java works on hashing principle.HashMap internally stores mapping in the form of Map.
Entry object which contains both key and value object. When you want to retrieve the object,
you call the get() method and again pass the key object.Maps are used for when you want to
associate a key with a value and Lists are an ordered collection. Map is an interface in the
Java Collection Framework and a HashMap is one implementation of the Map interface.
HashMap are efficient for locating a value based on a key and inserting and deleting values based on a key.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
The ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is a Runtime Exception thrown only at runtime.An attempt to
use an index that is less than zero or greater than the length of the array causes
an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException to be thrown.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Manually. In this method we manually copy elements one by one.
Arrays.copyOf() We can directly copy one array to another by using Arrays.copyOf() method.
System.arraycopy() It is another method that directly copies one array to another.
Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Basically, an array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential memory locations
under a common heading or a variable name. While a linked list is a data structure which
contains a sequence of the elements where each element is linked to its next element.
Adding or removing elements is a lot faster in a linked list than in an array. Iterating sequentially over the list one by
one is more or less the same speed in a linked list and an array. Getting one specific
element in the middle is a lot faster in an array.

What is DFS and BFS?
The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms
used for traversing and searching a node in a graph. They can also be used to find
out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.BFS uses the queue for storing
the nodes whereas DFS uses the stack for traversal of the nodes.

What is Recursion?
Recursion is a basic programming technique used in Java, in which a method calls
itself to solve some problem. A method that uses this technique is recursive.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
 All the data elements in non linear data structure can not be traversed in single run.
A non-linear data structure is a data structure in which a data item is connected to several
other data items so that a given data item has the possibility to reach one-or-more data items.
Examples of linear data structures are Arrays, Stack, Queue and Linked List whereas Examples of non linear data
structures are Trees and Graphs.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of
an algorithm. Big O specifically describes the worst-case scenario, and can be used to
describe the execution time required or the space used (e.g. in memory or on disk) by an algorithm.


Outline different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


